If you're watching this video, that
means your company has made the decision
to go up market. Congratulations. You're
going after the big guys. And with that,
your paid ad strategy needs to evolve in
order to meet your new reality. In this
video, I want to walk you through four
lessons and truths that we have found
scaling up market and helping our
clients make the transition from SMB to
mid-market to enterprise inside of our
ad agency. If you're new to the channel,
my name is Su Perez. I am the founder of
Ad Conversion. We are building the one
place that you can go to master B2B
advertising from education, services,
and software. On the educational side of
our business, we've got 8,000 plus B2B
marketers taking our free courses on
LinkedIn, Google, Reddit, and other
topics. On the services side of our
business, we are working exclusively
with B2B SAS companies, managing over $3
million a month in adsmen, and really
helping them cross this chasm. And then
on the software side of our business, we
have a tool that we launched called
Sammy that helps us build automated
workflows to optimize our ads 24/7
across channels. So without further ado,
anything ads, that's our jam. And in
this video, I'm going to talk to you
just like if you were a client or one of
my team members, kind of explaining this
concept so that you can understand it
and have the right expectations as you
go to battle of going up market. Okay,
let's get started with an example. And
bear with my handwriting. And this is
really the the chasm that you have to
cross as you decide to go up market.
First you have SMB, then you have
mid-market, then you have enterprise. So
scaling looks something like this as you
go up market. And this line is
representative of your TAM or your total
addressable market. So these are all the
people that you can service that you can
sell to. And when you're focusing on
SMB, really you're focusing on anyone
with a credit card that suffers with the
pain point that you can solve. Right? So
here, the world is truly your oyster.
You can run ads everywhere and you're
going to benefit from lower cost of
media and really even if you have a
lower conversion rate just because it's
so cheap to get in front of people, the
economics can work out. Here in
mid-market, you're not as fortunate
where now you're more interested in the
the not just who the person is and the
problem that they solve, but where they
work and the types of companies that
they work at. So now you're not going to
have as many options in terms of
channels available to you where you can
run ads. And then finally in enterprise
it gets even more dramatic and more
extreme because here you're even more
niche and more focused on exactly not
who but where and what they do for a
living. So with that being said, when
you're going uh when you're focusing on
SMB here, you really are primarily
focusing on capture. like you just want
to drive as much capture as humanly
possible, as many conversions as you
can. So, when you're in SMB world, this
is like you're focusing on paid search.
You're running a ton of remarketing
campaigns. You're just running ads with
your free trial or your demo request on
cold traffic and you're getting
conversions. And the math still makes
sense because again, the cost of media
is so cheap that even with a lower
conversion rate, you're able to make it
happen, right? And here, that is really
the game you're playing. The moment you
decide to make the shift and start going
after not just uh who but what and where
and getting more specific about the
people you want to go after. Now you
have to really shift because now guess
what uh the same channels that work for
you here are no longer going to work for
you here which we're going to talk about
in a second. And then the same is true
here. And then in addition to that, what
you'll find and if you're already making
the transition is as you go up market,
your costs get more expensive and your
conversion rates actually go down. And I
mean this from an ads perspective. This
is usually what people experience uh
because they are focusing mid-market and
enterprise and they're taking the same
approach that worked for them on paid
search and trying to make it happen
here. So what this looks like in
practice is you're trying to run that
same free trial ad and that same demo
request ad. now to a specific list of
companies on LinkedIn and they're not
responding the way that you want. Even
though you went through the effort of
creating personalized creative and
trying to create messaging that speaks
to them, the cost per conversion is
still not making sense. It's
dramatically higher compared to SMB. And
guess what? That's normal because here
your deal sizes are much greater. So
it's really you want to make sure you're
playing the quality over quantity game.
But with that being said, here the focus
really needs to shift. So here we really
want to focus on messaging. And when I
say messaging, I this is kind of like a
loaded thing, so I'll kind of expand on
it. But here we can no longer just like
ask for marriage on the first date. It's
not going to work. Like you can't just
go and say, "Hey, sign up for a free
trial. Sign up for a demo." You can try
it and see, especially if you're
focusing on lower midmarket and not
upper mid-market because upper
mid-market starts to teeter on like
enterprise and these massive
organizations. But here you really want
to focus on messaging. You want to
understand uh what are the pain points
that resonate with your different
segments. You want to focus on offers
and getting experimentive with the
offers that you launch to market. So for
example, we're not going to be able to
make a demo request convert on cold
traffic anymore here. So maybe we could
focus on a really good webinar that
positions oursel as a solution and then
bridges them into the thing that we want
which is signing up for a demo as an
example. So here you really need to get
experimentive. You need to test
messaging. You need to test offers and
you need to see what's resonating with
your audience. And finally, in the
enterprise side of things, this is where
there's really one last key focus and
more so than awareness because awareness
is kind of a given through all of this,
right? We're trying to get in front of
people. But in enterprise more than
anything the primary focal point needs
to be nurture because when you are
dealing with enterprise like you're
talking 24 to 36 month sales cycles and
just being a part of the mental
consideration set aka when they are
ready to make a decision they actually
think of you is half the battle. So now
that we've have this concept in our mind
and we kind of can conceptually
understand what crossing the chasm of
going up market looks like. Let's
transition now into the fourth truth.
Truth number one is paid search will
become less effective as a channel. I
kind of touched on this a bit, but I
want to elapse on it. When you bid on
paid search in the beginning when you're
SMB focused, again, you are bidding on
solutionoriented keywords and you don't
really care so much who's behind the
search. You care that they have a
relevant painoint that you can solve.
The moment you go up market, you're no
longer just interested in what they're
searching. you're interested more so on
who is behind the search. And the
challenge with paid search is two people
can search the same thing and you're
going to get charged the same amount. So
paid search in our experience is
predominantly a mid-market SMB channel.
So if you're going up market, you're
trying to focus on enterprise, you're
going to notice that over time your
allocation in terms of budget will go
down on paid search and really just
capture as a general channel, paid
review as well. and you're going to
start to focus more on paid social,
trying to pilot an ABM motion where
sales and marketing are working together
and trying to drive awareness and
consideration from the accounts you care
about. So, if you're listening to this
and you're like trying so hard to force
paid search to work for you to drive
more upper mid-market enterprise deals
and it's just not working, know that
it's expected and now it's time for you
to shift your approach. Drive the
awareness that you need from search.
cover those longtail keywords that might
not get a lot of volume but make sense
for the types of buyers you want. This
is also where competitive search
campaigns can make a lot of sense,
especially if those competitors are
known in the upper market spaces because
they're already attracting those kind of
buyers. But just know overall your
allocation will go down. The second
thing is your attribution has to shift
from who gets credit to closing the deal
as a team. When you go up market,
attribution gets fuzzy. Now you're
talking multiple touch points, multiple
decision makers, uh long sales cycles.
So it is not going to be feasible
anymore to just measure success based on
an ad being clicked and a conversion
happening simultaneously. Uh if you just
rely on one attribution model, it could
also lead you astray. So in my
experience and what we recommend to
clients is you focus on two approaches.
Number one is last touch. And last touch
is great for measuring your capture
campaigns. aka remarketing, paid search,
paid review, anything where you're
driving an ad and you're trying to get a
direct response from it. Measure those
campaigns on a last touch basis. It
makes perfect sense. However, your
awareness activities, you're going to
want to focus and measure that on a
blended overall impact perspective. So,
the way we define blended is blended is
organic and direct plus paid. Because
the assumption is if people search or
they find us some way, shape or form or
they see our ads and they do not click
or convert right away, what they're
going to do is they're going to look us
up directly on their browser and then
convert or they're going to go to
Google, search for us, and then convert
on their branded term. So, the reason
we're pulling in organic and we're
pulling in direct and we're not pulling
in email, uh, social media, referrals,
or any of those other types of sources
is because we're trying to isolate and
measure the influence of paid ads as a
channel. So, the cool thing about
blended is you can understand your total
spend from your platforms against your
pipeline activity. So let's talk about
total pipeline. And then you can measure
your overall efficiency as a business or
your pipe to spend. For every dollar you
put in, how much pipeline do you get
back? And if you can see quarter over
quarter your pipe to spend is
increasing, then that means you're
becoming more efficient with every
dollar you're investing in your
awareness activities. So you should have
confidence to do more of it. The third
thing is you need to get comfortable
with less volume. When you go up market,
you're basically saying, "I care more
about quality than I care about
quantity." In a perfect world, you could
have both, but in the example I showed
you, your total addressable market goes
down as you go up market. So, there is
less quantity to choose from, and it
becomes more expensive, too. So, just
understand that you're not going to
catch as many fish, but the few fish
that you do land are going to be worth
it because if you close one deal, it is
representative of six SMB deals or more
depending on your business. Finally, you
need to focus on post conversion. The
game isn't over once the free trial
submission comes in or the demo request
is booked. It's truly just the
beginning. You're talking 12, 36-mon
sales cycles, multiple people involved,
and just making sure that you are
staying in front of them is massive.
Some of the best ROI we've ever had is
running acceleration campaigns. These
are campaigns that are targeting open
opportunities and trying to improve the
win rates, shorten the sales cycles, and
essentially help sales close the deal.
So, these are the deals that sales is
working. You're going to run ads against
these open opportunities and you're
going to show them things like social
proof, uh things to handle objections
preemptively and you're going to be a
great partner to sales to try to close
that opportunity. You can also do things
like multi-threading where now you're
adding in different job functions. So
you're not just going after your core
buying group, but you're also adding in
things like finance as well or
procurement that needs to be a part of
this buying decision. And now it allows
you to multi-thread and drive more
targeted awareness across the deals that
are already considering you in the first
place. I hope this video was helpful. If
you want more, check out this video
here. If you're not subscribed to the
channel, please do me a favor and hit
that subscribe button. If you can also
give this video a like. That'll help us
get the channel out there uh to reach
more people. And if you want to go
deeper into B2B and advertising, I
highly recommend you check us out at
adconversion.com and you take our free
courses where 8,000 plus B2B marketers
are learning from us. I'm sure you can
find a ton of value. Thanks so much.
I'll see you in the next one.